# EventsBackend API in Express

This repository contains an Events API built using Express, a fast and minimalist web framework for Node.js. The API allows you to manage events, including creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting events.

## Getting Started

To get started with the Events API, follow the instructions below.

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following software installed on your machine:

- Node.js (version 14 or above)
- npm (Node Package Manager)

### Installation

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/suyash200/EventsBackend.git
```

2. Change to the project directory:

```shell
cd EventsBackend
```

3. Install the dependencies:

```shell
npm install
```

4. Set up the environment variables:

Create a `.env` file in the root of the project and define the following variables:

```shell
PORT=4000       # Port on which the server will run
MONGO_URI=your-mongodb-uri  # MongoDB connection URI
Jwt_Secret=your-secret
```

Replace `your-mongodb-uri` with your actual MongoDB connection URI.

### Starting the Server

To start the server, run the following command:

```shell
npm start
```

The API will now be accessible at `http://localhost:4000`.

## API Endpoints for events 
 
The Events API exposes the following endpoints:

### GET /events

Retrieves a list of all events.


### POST /events

Creates a new event. Requires the following request body in seederData folder:

<!-- ```json
{
  "title": "Event Title",
  "description": "Event Description",
  "date": "2023-06-20T10:00:00.000Z",
  "location": "Event Location"
}
``` -->

### PUT /events/:id

Updates an existing event with the provided ID. Requires the  request body found in seederData:
<!-- 
```json
{
  "title": "New Event Title",
  "description": "New Event Description",
  "date": "2023-06-20T10:00:00.000Z",
  "location": "New Event Location"
}
``` -->

### DELETE /events/:id

Deletes an event with the provided ID.

## Data Model

The API uses a MongoDB database to store event data. The data model for events is as follows:

```javascript
{
  _id: ObjectId,
  title: String,
  description: String,
  date: Date,
  location: String
}
```

The `_id` field is automatically generated by MongoDB.

## Error Handling

The API handles errors and returns appropriate error responses. If an error occurs, you will receive a JSON response with an `error` field and an associated error message.

## Authentication and Authorization

This API  currently  uses Jwt for  authentication or authorization mechanisms. 

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

<!-- ## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information. -->

## Acknowledgments

This API was developed using the Express framework and inspired by various RESTful API design patterns.
